# Glossary

**ABAC**

See Attribute-Based Access Control.

**Attribute Authority**

Also known as an attribute store, is a directory or database where user attributes are created and stored and is the trusted source used for making attribute-based access control (ABAC) decisions.

**Attribute-Based Access Control**

Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC) is a method for allowing or denying access to resources.

**Attribute Keys**

A public/private key pair associated with an attribute. In general this key pair will be shared with other attributes. The public portion of the pair is published as a field in the AttributeObject and used by clients to wrap object key splits. The private portion is held by the Key Access Service (KAS) and used to perform rewrap operations.

**Attribute Object**

A fully specified attribute with two distinctly different uses. When used in an Entity objects it represents an "entity attribute," an attribute that the user is certified to have. When used in Policy objects it represents a "data attribute," an attribute that an entity must "satisfy" with its entity attributes before payload decryption is authorized.

**Attribute Policy**

The rule applied at the cluster or name level of an attribute to decide if the entity values for the attribute satisfy the corresponding set of data values for the attribute. Currently AllOf, AnyOf, and Hierarchical attribute policy types are supported.

**Attribute URL**

A string in URL form that uniquely describes an attribute value in a namespace. The namespace is "owned" by an Attribute Authority and includes a name for the category of values. The value is a string that has meaning within the scope of the namespace. Example: "https://acme.com/attr/projects/value/rocket" describes an attribute value "rocket" within the "acme corporation 'projects'" namespace.

**Binding**

See Policy Binding.

**Cert**

An Entity Object encrypted (certified) by the Entity Attribute Service (EAS) with its private key. The Key Access Service (KAS) decrypts the certified Entity Object with the EAS public key to both validate the Entity Object and access its contents.

**Data Attribute**

Abstractly, an attribute value that an entity must satisfy before access is granted to the data. The form of a data attribute varies with use. The minimal form is an Attribute URL, the maximal form is an Attribute Object.

**Data Attributes**

The unordered set of data attributes in a TDF3 policy that restrict access to the encrypted payload data.

**EAS**

See Entity Attribute Service.

**Encrypted Metadata**

An encrypted JSON object that conveys sensitive assertions to KAS plugins that are not part of the main TDF3 specification. The EncryptedMetadata object is encrypted with the Object Key when the TDF file is created and located in the manifest's encryptedInformation.keyAccess object.

**Entity**

A User; human or system element.

**Entity Attribute**

Abstractly, an attribute value that an entity "has." The form of an entity attribute varies with use. The minimal form is an Attribute URL, the maximal form is an Attribute Object.

**Entity Attributes**

The unordered set of attributes associated with a particular entity. This set defines (grants and bounds) the entity's scope of access.

**Entity Attribute Service**

The EAS has three major roles: It is the authority for attributes, and as such supports CRUD operations on attributes; it is the reference authority for entities, supporting CRUD operations on entities. Finally, it produces EntityObjects that certify that a particular entity possesses a set of attributes.

**Entity Key Pair**

Public-Private key pair generated by the TDF client. This key pair is owned by the entity.

**Entity Object**

A (signed) object returned by the Entity Attribute Service (EAS) that associates an entity (by userId) with its entity public key (see Entity Key Pair) and entity attributes.

**Entity Private Key**

A private key owned by the entity (aka client or end user).

**Entity Public Key**

A public key corresponding to entity private key.

**HTML Reference File**

HTML encoded Trusted Data Format (TDF).

**JWT**

JSON Web Tokens are an open, industry standard RFC 7519 method for representing claims securely between two parties.

**KAS**

See Key Access Service.

**Key Access Object**

See keyAccess in TDF3 specifications.

**Key Access Service**

The Key Access Service (KAS) is the policy decision point in the TDF3 system. It rewraps the object key.

**Manifest (manifest.json)**

A JSON file generated by the TDF encrypting client when data (file or email) is encrypted. This manifest typically lives with encrypted data. This file contains all the information needed by the reading (decrypting) client to request key access from the KAS.

**PDP**

A Policy Decision Point evaluates access requests and grants or rejects access based on predefined criteria.

**PEP**

A Policy Enforcement Point receives authorization requests from a Policy Decision Point and makes authorization decisions to allow or deny access to data.

**Policy Object**

A JSON object representing the Policy, containing all required fields to be placed on the policy.

**Policy Binding**

A keyed hash that provides cryptographic integrity of the Policy Object.

**Object Key**

The symmetric encryption key used to encrypt the object data (payloads). The Object Key is protected by optionally splitting it into parts and then wrapping (encrypting with attribute public keys) each part before discarding the original object key. The only way to restore the object key is to have the wrapped splits rewrapped by a KAS with the entity's public key, decrypting the rewrapped splits with the entity's private key (that only the entity client has), then merging the splits.

**Remote Wrapped**

A type of Key Access Object that uses Customer Key Server (CKS) for its server-sided wrapping.

**Split (encryption type)**

A string representing the type of encryption strategy that is used when key splitting is used across multiple Attributes/KASs.

**TDF**

See Trusted Data Format.

**Trusted Data Format**

A data object encoding specification for the purposes of enabling data tagging and cryptographic security features.

**VJWT**

Virtru's augmented JSON Web Token (JWT) format.

**Wrapped (type)**

A type of Key Access Object that uses a wrapped key stored within the TDF's manifest.
